attributeName	attributeDefinition	class	unit	dateTimeFormatString	missingValueCode	missingValueCodeExplanation
Collection_Year	Year that the soil was collected from the specified plot.	Date		YYYY		
Archived_Sample_ID	Unique identifier for the soil sample, corresponding to the archived physical sample in the UMBS SAFE.	character				
Plot_ID	Standardized name of the LTREB long-term plot in which the soil sample was collected. Check the plot descriptions file.	character				
Profile_ID	Unique identifier for the soil profile (parent) from which the soil sample (child) is derived. Concatenated from the plot ID and the unique soil profile (2 <= n <= 4 per plot).	character				
Targeted_Sampling_Increment	The horizon or depth increment (in cm) intended to be collected.	character				
Actual_Sampling_Increment	The horizon or depth increment (in cm) that was actually collected. May differ from targeted depth, e.g., based upon sample slumping out of the bottom of the coring device during sample collections.	character				
Sampling_Increment_Thickness	Thickness (in cm) of the sampled depth increment.	numeric	centimeter		NA	Thicknesses not measured for O and A horizons because they were collected as genetic horizons.
Sample_Volume	Calculated volume (in cubic cm) of the sample based upon its thickness and the diameter of the corer used to collect it.	numeric	cubicCentimeter		NA	No sample volume calculated because thickness was not measured.
Fine_Earth_Dry_Mass	Measured dry mass (in g) of the fine earth fraction (soil materials passing 2 mm sieve). Air-dried and weighed to the nearest 0.01 g.	numeric	gram			
Root_Dry_Mass	Measured dry mass (in g) of fine roots (less than 2 mm in diameter). Air-dried and weighed to the nearest 0.01 g.	numeric	gram			
Wood_Dry_Mass	Measured dry mass (in g) of woody roots (greater than 2 mm in diameter) and woody materials not passing 2 mm sieve (e.g., bark pieces, twigs, acorn fragments). Air-dried and weighed to the nearest 0.01 g.	numeric	gram			
Stone_Dry_Mass	Air dry mass of stones not passing 2 mm sieve.	numeric	gram			
Stone_Volume	Calculated volume of stones (in cubic cm) assuming stones have specific density of 2.5 g per cubic cm.	numeric	cubicCentimeter			
Sieving_Comments	Comments noted by the individual while sieving the soil sample.	character			NA	No additional comments on sieving for this observation.
Fine_Earth_Mass_Density	The mass density of the fine earth fraction for O and A horizons, which were sampled by a 15x15 cm template. Calculated from the mass (g) of fine earth per 225 square cm, scaled to mass in Mg (= 1000000 g) and area in ha (10000000 square cm).	numeric	megagramsPerHectare		NA	Attribute not collected for mineral soil depth increments, only O and A horizons.
Fine_Earth_Bulk_Density	The bulk density of the fine earth fraction for mineral soil depth increments, sampled with a 2.6 cm inside diameter corer. Calculated as the g of fine earth per cubic cm of fine earth. Cubic centimeters of fine earth is calculated as the difference between the core volume and the stone volume.	numeric	gramsPerCubicCentimeter		NA	Attribute not collected for O and A horizons, only mineral soil depth increments.
Bulk_Density_Code	Code indicating how Fine_Earth_Bulk_Density attribute was collected.	categorical			NA	Attribute not collected for O and A horizons, only mineral soil depth increments.
Texture	Texture class of the fine earth fraction, assessed using feel and judgment.	character			NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
PH	pH of the sample in a 1:1 soil:distilled water paste. Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Described in standard pH scale 0-14.	numeric	dimensionless		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Percent_Loss_On_Ignition	Percent mass loss of the oven-dried fine earth fraction after heating to 375 degrees Celsius. Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997.	numeric	dimensionless		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Percent_C_Concentration	Percent total carbon of the oven-dried fine earth fraction analyzed with an elemental analyzer. 	numeric	dimensionless			
C_Concentration_Code	Code indicating how Percent_C_Concentration attribute was collected.	categorical				
Ca_Concentration	Exchangeable calcium concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
K_Concentration	Exchangeable potassium concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Mg_Concentration	Exchangeable magnesium concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
P_Concentration	Exchangeable phosphorus concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Al_Concentration	Exchangeable aluminum concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Cu_Concentration	Exchangeable copper concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Fe_Concentration	Exchangeable iron concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Mn_Concentration	Exchangeable manganese concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Na_Concentration	Exchangeable sodium concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
S_Concentration	Exchangeable sulfur concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Zn_Concentration	Exchangeable zinc concentration, measured using a modified Morgan extraction (pH 4.8 ammonium acetate). Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in mg per kg.	numeric	milligramsPerKilogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Acidity	Exchangeable acidity, measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in milliequivalents per 100 g.	numeric	milliequivalentsPerHectogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
ECEC	Effective cation exchange capacity, calculated by summation of exchangeable bases and acidity. Measured by the Maine Soil Testing Service according to methods described in Hoskins et al. 1997. Expressed in milliequivalents per 100 g.	numeric	milliequivalentsPerHectogram		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Root_C_Stock	Calculated fine root (less than 2 mm diameter) carbon stock, based on sample fine root dry mass (g) and assuming a 47% carbon concentration. For O and A horizons, computation is fine root dry carbon mass (g) of the sample, collected from a 15x15 cm (= 225 square cm) template, scaled to mass in Mg (= 1000000 g) and area in ha (10000000 square cm). For mineral soil horizons collected with a corer, calculated as the volumetric root mass (g roots per cubic cm of fine earth), converted to carbon mass, divided by the thickness of the increment to get g of root carbon per square cm of soil, scaled to mass in Mg (= 1000000 g) and area in ha (10000000 square cm).	numeric	megagramsPerHectare		NA	Attribute not collected for this sample.
Soil_C_Stock	Calculated soil carbon stock (for the less than 2 mm fine earth fraction). For O and A horizons, computation is the carbon concentration times the mass density of the fine earth fraction, collected from a 225 square cm template, scaled to mass in Mg (= 1000000 g) and area in ha (10000000 square cm). For mineral soil increments, calculated as the product of the carbon concentration times the bulk density (g per cubic cm) times the increment thickness (cm) to yield g of carbon per square cm, scaled to mass in Mg (= 1000000 g) and area in ha (10000000 square cm).	numeric	megagramsPerHectare			