attributeName	attributeDefinition	class	unit	dateTimeFormatString	missingValueCode	missingValueCodeExplanation
LTREB_Tag_2019	Tags installed as part of plot census during LTREB initiation in 2014. Some 2019 tags do not match 2014 tags and are indicated here. Field is NA for all measurements taken before 2019.	character			NA	If measurement was recorded before 2019 then no 2019 tag information exists. Otherwise LTREB tag was unknown as of 2019 measurement.
LTREB_Tag_2014	Tags installed as part of plot census during LTREB initiation in 2014. In plots never before sampled, but sampled first in 2014 for LTREB, all trees will have tag IDs. For LTREB plots within older historic plots, all trees within the LTREB 0.1 ha (18 m radius) plot will have these tag IDs and possibly an Old_Tag. LTREB 2019 tags were assumed to match 2014 tags unless otherwise specified.	character			NA	If measurement was recorded before 2019 then tree did not have LTREB tag as of date of measurement. Otherwise tree was planted after 2014 or could not be matched to a 2014 tree record.
Old_Tag	Tree tag number (or letter, or combination) assigned as part of historic (pre-2014) plot censuses. In many of the long-term forest inventory plots, trees were never tagged, but were measured as individuals each time a census was performed. For large historic plots, LTREB plots installed within these plots sometimes encountered these old tags and their identities were transcribed into the LTREB plot inventory dataset to enable tracking across past inventory data.	character			NA	If measurement was recorded before 2019 then tree did not have tag prior to LTREB project. Otherwise tree was planted after 2014 or could not be matched to a 2014 tree record.
Species	A four-character code to represent the species of the tree being measured.	categorical				
Plot_ID	Standardized name of the LTREB plot containing the saplings that were counted.	character				
Outside_Historic_Plot	Denotes whether the observation occurred outside of the historic plot, as a result of plot size standardization activities carried out during LTREB initiation.	character			NA	Attribute was not recorded for 2019 measurement.
Measure_Year	Year measurement was taken.	Date		YYYY		
Date	Date that measurement was taken.	Date		YYYY-MM-DD	NA	Date of measurement was not recorded.
Distance	Distance of measured tree from plot center in meters.	numeric	meter		NA	Attribute was not recorded.
Azimuth	Compass direction in degrees with a 6 degree declination.	numeric	degree		NA	Attribute was not recorded.
Status	Type of individual tree. Before 2019, tree status includes live/dead and dominant/codominant/overtopped. In 2019, tree status only includes live/dead.	categorical			NA	Attribute was not recorded.
Origin_Year	Year of stand initiation. As best as can be determined from historic records or dendrochronology, this is the year that the trees present on a plot became established after some significant disturbance (e.g., clearcutting or stand-replacing fire). Often assumed to be equal to the age of the oldest trees present on the plot.	Date		YYYY	NA	Attribute was not recorded.
Years_Standing	Calculated number of years standing based on tree’s origin year.	numeric	nominalYear		NA	Attribute was not calculated because Origin_Year was not recorded.
DBH	Diameter at breast height size class in centimeters.	numeric	centimeter		NA	Attribute was not recorded.
As_Class	Marks DBH measurements that were taken in the form of a "size class" rather than an actual measurement. “Y” represents size class, “N” represents actual measurement.	character				
AGB	Calculated above ground biomass using allometric equations table.	numeric	kilogram		NA	Attribute was not calculated.
Estimated_Height	Height of stem or dead tree in meters. Dead tree heights estimated to the nearest 0.5 meters. Dead trees indicated by Status attribute.	numeric	meter		NA	Attribute was not recorded.
Notes	Additional notes on tree being measured.	character			NA	Attribute was not recorded.